
World War 2 was a global conflict that lasted from 1939 to 1945. It involved the 
majority of the world’s nations, including all of the great powers, organized into 
two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis. The war had its roots in 
the rise of fascist regimes in Europe, especially Nazi Germany, and in the 
aggressive foreign policies of these regimes.

The spark that ignited the war was the German invasion of Poland in September 1939. 
This led to declarations of war from Britain and France and the beginning of the 
largest and deadliest conflict in human history. The war soon spread beyond Europe, 
with Japan’s surprise attack on the American naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on 
December 7, 1941. This led to the United States joining the Allies in the war 
against Japan and Germany.

One of the most significant events of World War 2 was the Holocaust, the systematic 
extermination of six million Jews by Nazi Germany. The horrors of the Holocaust, 
along with the other atrocities committed during the war, forever changed the way 
people think about war and humanity. The world was shocked by the scale of the 
genocide and the cruelty with which it was carried out.

Another significant event was the dropping of atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945 by the United States. The bombs killed over 
200,000 people and forced Japan to surrender, ending the war in Asia. The use of 
atomic weapons marked a new era in warfare and had a profound impact on 
international relations and the arms race between the great powers.

The end of the war in Europe came on May 8, 1945, with the unconditional surrender 
of Germany to the Allies. The war resulted in the loss of millions of lives and the 
displacement of millions of people. It also had far-reaching economic and political 
consequences, leading to the formation of the United Nations and the establishment 
of the United States and the Soviet Union as superpowers.
